Data Technician
Company: Just Money (UK-based financial company)
Objective: Your line manager has asked you to extract, clean, format and present data using appropriate tools for analysis.

📁 Data Files Provided
You will be using the following two CSV files:

Loan Data.csv – Contains latest loan requests.

Personal Data.csv – Contains personal details of applicants.

✅ Tasks 1–10: Step-by-Step Guide with Tips
Task 1: Merge Selected Columns
Import the following from Personal Data.csv into Loan Data.csv:

Gender, Married, Dependant, Education, Self-employed

Match using the shared ID (e.g., Applicant_ID)

Use Excel’s VLOOKUP or XLOOKUP

Rename the final sheet: Loan Request Data

✅ Tip: Check that the column headers are the same in both files.

Task 2: Format Currency
Format Applicant Income and Loan Amount:

Currency

2 decimal places

Use Format Cells > Currency

✅ Tip: Make sure the data is stored as numbers (not text).

Task 3: Remove Blank Records
Delete any rows with missing values in any column

Use filters or conditional formatting to identify blanks

✅ Tip: Save a backup before making changes!

Task 4: Format Table for Presentation
Add the following:

Bold headers

Gridlines and borders

Highlight key values or totals

✅ Tip: Use Excel’s Table Design tools for a clean look.

Task 5: Add Monthly Payment Column
Insert a new column next to Loan Amount Term

Name it: Monthly Payment

Format the column (e.g. currency, bold header)

Task 6: Calculate Monthly Payment
Formula:

graphql
Copy
Edit
=IFERROR([@LoanAmount]/[@Loan_Amount_Term], "")
✅ Tip: Use structured references if using Excel Table format.

Task 7: Count Gender Breakdown
In O2: Count Male applicants
=COUNTIF([Gender Range], "Male")

In O3: Count Female applicants
=COUNTIF([Gender Range], "Female")

✅ Tip: Ensure spelling and capitalisation match exactly.

Task 8: Create a Chart
Show total loan amounts for married male and married female applicants

Filter data:

Married = Yes

Gender = Male or Female

Use a Pivot Table to summarise

Create a Bar or Column Chart from that Pivot Table

Task 9: Write a Summary
Place below your chart

Keep it brief and focused:

Mention trends, comparisons, or standout values

Use bullet points or a 2–3 sentence paragraph

Task 10: Save Final File
Save with a clear filename:
e.g. Loan_Request_Analysis_Complete.xlsx

Ensure:

All charts and formatting are preserved

Pivot Charts remain linked to their data

📝 Final Tips
Double-check formulas for accuracy

Keep formatting clean and professional

Make sure everything is readable at a glance

